Introduction:

Bootstrap is the most popular HTML, CSS and JavaScript framework for developing a responsive and mobile friendly website. It is opensource.

Bootstrap, originally named as Twitter Blueprint was developed by Mark Otto and Jacob Thornton at Twitter. later it has renamed as bootstrap.

The initial release of this boot strap happened on  August 19, 2011.

why?

Before Bootstrap, various libraries were used for interface development, which led to inconsistencies and a high maintenance burden.
It is very easy to use. Anybody having basic knowledge of HTML and CSS can use Bootstrap.
It facilitates users to develop a responsive website.
It is compatible on most of browsers like Chrome, Firefox, Internet Explorer, Safari and Opera etc.


advantage:
Great grid system,
A consistent framework that supports major of all browsers and CSS compatibility fixes,
Top-notch support(community support)

what is new in bootstrap 5?

1.jQuery Support
2. CSS Custom Properties
3. Improved Grid System
4. Improved Documentation
5. Improved Form Controls
6. Bootstrap 5 Adds Utilities API
7. New Bootstrap Icon Library

Bootstrap 5 Grid System:
Bootstrap's grid system is built with flexbox and allows up to 12 columns across the page.

Container:

Containers are a fundamental building block of Bootstrap that contain, pad, and align your content within a given device or viewport.

The Bootstrap 6 grid system has six classes:

.col- (extra small devices - screen width less than 576px)
.col-sm- (small devices - screen width equal to or greater than 576px)
.col-md- (medium devices - screen width equal to or greater than 768px)
.col-lg- (large devices - screen width equal to or greater than 992px)
.col-xl- (xlarge devices - screen width equal to or greater than 1200px)
.col-xxl- (xxlarge devices - screen width equal to or greater than 1400px)

			4	5
Grid System	It has 5 tier (xs, sm, md, lg, xl).	It has 6 tier (xs, sm, md, lg, xl, xxl).
color	limited. 	having more than 4, and having shadows
icon	it doesn't have svg icon.	it has svg icon.
card deck	it is available .	it is not available.









